you know this is a very sort of and
admittedly it's 2,000 years old but a
very sort of a vibrant Call to Arms an
urgent sense that oh my God we we're
living in an atrophying and dying
ideology we must become alive with
Christ we must change the world and and
and even the accounts that are given in
there are accounts of people jailed and
on trial now it sort of feels overtly
and and literally political
[Music]
hey
everybody I've got a chance today to
continue my ongoing conversation with
Russell Brand um I want to talk to him
today about the collective unconscious
and about what it is because I think we
Now understand what it is I I'm talking
to him about sacrifice as the basis of
community about the distinction between
Authority and power and logos and Power
about the danger of the use of power
about the necessity of the
story about how all that's played out in
his own life about the proclivity of the
modern self to identify itself with its
whims and desires and passions and the
inevitability that that identification
turns into something that closely
approximates
worship uh the idea that something
should supplant has to supplant that for
maturation to take place and for society
itself to stabilize and remain
productive and abundant we talk about
the Call to
Adventure uh as
a variant of the establishment of
relationship with God we talk about the
burden that Christ left on his followers
in the aftermath of his death all of
that
so if that's
what what would you say winds your clock
well this is the discussion for
you so good to see you Russell thanks
for agreeing to talk to me today it is a
great joy to be in your company thank
you for having
me so I want to run some ideas by you
and I want you to tell me how they Echo
for you personally and also
philosophically so I think I figured out
what the collective unconscious
is finally run that well I've been
thinking about these large language
models a lot and about what they do
because they can obviously mimic human
thought at the verbal level quite quite
spectacularly now of course the woke
ideologues have done everything they
could to mck them up spectacularly right
from the beginning and we're going to
pay a big price for that but there's
still something there that's very very
uh telling about how we think so let me
lay out the idea then you tell me what
you think about
it so what these models
do is map the statistical relationship
between between you might say markers
and so imagine that you can tell the
difference between a a
word like imagine a word be i n t which
isn't a word but it's kind of a
plausible nonword and it's a plausible
non-word because the statistical
relationship between the letters
mimics the likely statistical
relationship between letters in a real
English word so it's much more of a word
than qn
ZT okay so now there are statistical
regularities between letters that enable
us to identify
words and then there are
statistical re regularities between
words in phrases that make sense and
then there are statistical re
regularities between phrases in
sentences and sentences in relationship
to one another and then say within
paragraphs and then paragraphs in
relationship to to one another and the
large language models are trained to map
all that so what what that implies
obviously is something like any given
idea is statistically likely to exist in
relationship to a certain set of other
ideas and
not and not distal ideas and so if I
throw an idea at you I'm also throwing a
network of associated co- ideas at you
at the same time and then out farther in
the penumbra are even more distantly
Associated ideas and more creative
people are going to be able to LEAP from
the center to the distal ideas we
already know that from studying
creativity so the large language models
map the statistical association between
sets of ideas that's a good way of
thinking about it you could imagine the
same thing happens with
images that's so if you bring to mind
the image of a witch you're much more
likely to bring to mind the image of a
cauldron and a black cat for example
maybe a spider maybe a pumpkin so so the
collective unconscious would be take a
given culture the collective unconscious
would be the statistical association
between ideas in so far as that culture
has represented the ideas and that's
mappable mathematically and so a symbol
would be something like a set of it's a
set of statistically Associated
Concepts right especially image image
Laden Concepts in particular with
regards to symbol
so it's a weight what the collective
unconscious seems to be is the the
system of
Weights between Concepts through which
we see the
world so and that makes it a real thing
it makes symbols real because a symbol
is a network of ideas with a core idea
at the center
so yes how beautiful firstly I wonder
with some of the areas we might uh at
least it seems to me that I ought
address as occurring are the difference
between signifiers that are of course
according to post structuralist and to
much of the work done by Within
semiotics
arbitrary and potentially Universal
natural or at least practical symbols uh
I I I wonder for example about the idea
that is it a type of language that a
barn full of chicks will respond to the
silhouette of a bird when it travels
above their heads on a wire in One
Direction because when traveling from
north to south the silhouette resembles
that of a hawk but when it travels back
along the same trajectory but in Reverse
they do not respond because it no longer
resembles the silhouette of a hawk a
hawk does not travel in that formation
that is a type of language there is
language within
nature this is the first thought so
you're referring to something yeah okay
so so that adds an additional Dimension
to the to the model so then you might
say that there
are co-occurring patterns of regularity
with biological significance that exist
in some exist in some real sense outside
the merely conceptual and those are
probably marked in the fundamental
analysis by
death right because the other one of the
other things I've been thinking about is
that people ask me questions like you
know do you think God is real and a
question like that always bigs the
question for me is like well what the
hell do you mean real like what makes
something real and you know you could
say
tangibility um although that's only one
dimension of what makes something real
it's like I think what makes things real
in the final analysis is probably death
and in the in the example you used of
the silhouette which is a very famous
example with regard to birds the
silhouette traveling in One Direction
that signifies death reliably right over
a very long span of evolutionary history
and any creature that didn't respond to
that silhouette was at a much more at a
much higher probability of being picked
off so then one of the things you might
note and this is where the
postmodernists got things like
dreadfully wrong and where the large
language models have drifted into
Insanity so imagine that there's a
statistical relationship between
Concepts that's okay so then you might
say well what gives that statistical
relationship reality and the postmodern
types would say well it's just arbitrary
cultural construction but it's not
because there are patterns of
relationships between events that are
part and parcel of the world per se and
some of those need to be accurately
mapped by the conceptual system or you
die and so I would say the like the the
ideas that ring most true to us that
grip Us in this sort of archetypal way
are ideas that bear directly on our
survival whether we recognize it or not
they strike a cord within us like here's
a good example we we'll shift sideways
for a
minute I've started to understand why so
I'm on a tour right now we who wrestle
with God and it's focusing on biblical
stories I'm trying to explain I'm trying
to understand what they mean and then
talk about that so other people can
understand in so far as I'm able
to and one of the Striking meta themes
of the biblical library is the necessity
of sacrifice right and so I've been
trying to understand first of all what
what it means to sacrifice it it means
to give up
something
that's desirable for something that's
more desirable it's something like that
it's it's something higher and it's
higher because
it's it it's it extends over a long
longer period of time and it includes
more
people and so like sacrifice is the
basis of community well why well it's
obvious Russell as far as I can tell
it's like if you're in a communal
relationship which is any relationship
obviously
then you're giving something up that's
immediate to
you to establish and maintain the
relationship right so it's a sacrificial
gesture and once you understand that
once you understand that sacrific is at
the basis of
community the question immediately
arises which is well what's the most
effective form of sacrifice and the the
this biblical story Old and New
Testament together together is actually
an examination of sacrifice per se it's
an attempt to spiral down to the core of
what constitutes well you might say the
sacrifice that's maximally effective
maximally acceptable to God but it it's
something like what sacrifices by
necessity at the core of community I
also don't think there's any difference
between that and cortical maturation by
the way I think they're identical
Concepts because as you mature from you
know hedonistic power mad
2-year-old what happens is that you
integrate modes of attention and action
that facilitate your longer term
survival but also your inclusion within
more and more complex webs of social
Community that's all
sacrificial good God now there's a lot
of Jordan Peterson 101 there's a lot of
hits running simultane ly here JP
because we've already touched on the
idea of chaos and the necessary
inevitable emergence of patterns within
chaos and it seems that you are positing
to a degree that this CA chaos is
analogous to perhaps the collective
unconscious and some of the patterns
that are emerging in AI models even with
the biases evident within them are an
indicator of how how these patterns
emerge within a container and I suppose
to say a container is to indicate that
we're acknowledging an absolute we've
moved from this idea of a collective
unconscious and and patterns emerging
within chaos into sacrifice which
obviously another great Jordan Peterson
theme and as you say perhaps the
overarching theme of The Bible my
contribution to this incredible amount
of information that you are relaying it
has to do with where might one's
intention carry you in so much as it
seems that in this process of maturation
and and one and a personal relationship
with sacrifice how that develops and
evolves it seems to me is when one
starts to acknowledge that there is not
when you use the phrase immediately
beneficial that when we're referring to
immediacy we are talking about both
spatial and temporal immediacy and we
might have to consider that when dealing
with the supply as surely the Bible is
that even these categories are called
into question the most basic and taken
for granted categories of any temporal
creature will have to be challenged this
perhaps helps me to understand how the
ultimate sacrifice as rendered in the
New Testament and and and and most I
suppose would regard as the defining
Christian image the the image of
sacrifice can tackle the complex idea of
The Pact that is made by the sacrifice
of the man God because I as I as I
explore and attempt to understand
Christianity more deeply the this the
the nature of the trium the father and
the Son and the Holy Spirit and the
nature of this pact is something that
I'm mulling over and I feel that the
reason I can't reach resolution is
because it's irresoluble because I I ask
that when there is absolute dominion and
omnipotence with whom might a pact be
made and I starting to conclude that it
must be a kind of Cohen that you know
that that all is coming from the same
Source yep yep yep CU otherwise How can
there be a packed well I can tell you a
story about that and you tell me what
you think about
it everyone's talking about how chat gbt
and artificial intelligence are going to
change the world world big tech
companies are investing heavily in AI
for search engines but they're also the
same big tech companies that determine
your search results that's why I use
expressvpn to add a layer of protection
between me and big Tech expressvpn hides
my unique IP address on all my devices
this makes it much harder for big Tech
to identify who I am and match my
activity back to me expressvpn is also
so easy to use to turn it on just tap
one button on your phone or computer and
you're protected expressvpn goes beyond
shielding you from Big Tech as well it
encrypts every every bit of your online
traffic ensuring your safety from
hackers and prying eyes leaving no room
for compromise the best part is that one
expressvpn subscription covers up the
five devices simultaneously so your
whole family can use it don't let big
Tech exploit your data any longer take
control with expressvpn today visit
expressvpn.com Jordan now and enjoy an
exclusive offer of three extra months
free that's
expressvpn.com Jordan expressvpn.com
Jordan today
well I can tell you a story about that
and you tell me what you think about it
that's a very good question because the
other the thing you're pointing to too
which is definitely the case that
the the the nature of the relationship
between man and God in the biblical
stories is covenantal it's
contractual and it's relational right so
there's an insistence that it's all of
those it's like the relationship you
have with a being even though it says
explicitly in the biblical stories in
the background so to speak that God is
beyond all categories of being and
non-being but on top of that is overlaid
a the insistence that well in so far as
you're concerned it's still going to be
a relationship with something that's a
being or that's the essence of being
itself okay so why
relationship
well there's two questions why
relationship and why contract okay well
let's think about work first of all and
and what what it means to
work obviously work is a sacrificial
Enterprise because when people say
they're working what they mean is
they're giving up what they or something
within them would rather have happen
right now if they had their brothers for
some longer term
investment right so then the question is
well investment in what contract with
what and you could say well it's it's a
contract with the community if I put in
that's what money is if I put in time
and effort then I'll get something that
I can redeem in the future for something
for some specified value but then that
community that
you're Contracting with is a community
that's predicated on a certain ethic
because otherwise the the contract
wouldn't stand like if the deal was well
you I can work and I can store something
up of value and then some ravaging mob
can just come and take it well that's
going to take the spirit out of my work
pretty damn quickly you know and that
was probably the fate of most people who
ever stored anything of value prior to
the emergence of something like a
complex sacrificial civilization
where Envy for example was regarded as
off the table you couldn't just take
something that someone had because you
wanted it and
so the notion of work itself is is a is
a no is the notion of a contract with
the future but the viability of that
contract depends on an underlying
ethos okay so now let me let me give you
tell you a story about what that
contract how that contract might be
concept ized can you tell me what you
think about this so I've been studying
the story of
Abraham he starts out as Abraham by the
way a r m so she has a different name
which is actually relevant as the story
progresses so Abraham has privilege in
the modern parlaments he's got rich
parents and everything he
needs everything he needs is right at
hand for
him I mean that it begs the question of
course what is it that you actually need
but what Abram has is kind of like the
uh he's either got he's got the
materialist Paradise at hand there's
there's nothing that he doesn't have at
hand that whose absence would cause
privation so I would say he's a fully
satiated
infant and you can think about that as
is a notion of Utopia it's the notion of
Utopia that dovi criticized by the way
and what happens to Abraham he's like
75 and the spirit of God comes to him
that's how the story lays itself out and
says look buddy you got to get the hell
out of your zone of comfort you have to
leave your father's tent you have to
leave your people you have to leave
everything that's made you comfortable
and you have to Journey out into the
world
and Abraham agrees to this deal okay so
as soon as he agrees that he's going to
forego his infantile Comfort even though
he's like 70 by this time so he's a bit
of a late
bloomer God offers him a deal this is
the Covenant and so I think it's a
description of the
consequences of the full manifestation
of the spirit of Adventure so imagine
that there's a spirit within you that
calls you to a more profound level of
development it's the spirit that you
would encourage if you had any sense if
you had in your children if you had
children you're launching them into the
world you're saying follow the spirit of
Adventure okay so God offers Abraham a
deal he says if you do this and you make
the necessary
sacrifices then you'll live a life that
will be a blessing to you
you that will happen in a manner that
will rown to your reputation so you'll
become known but in a way that in the
right way to become known you'll become
influential and admirable in the proper
manner as a consequence of undertaking
the adventure you'll do that in a way
that will establish something permanent
that's a dynasty with with innumerable
descendants because of the pattern that
you're establishing and you'll do all
those all of that in a way that's
maximally beneficial to everyone
else so the case is being made in that
story that there's no difference between
the direction that the spirit of
Adventure orients you and the provision
of Plenty
psychologically socially and over the
longest possible span of time and that's
the Covenant and so so the the notion
would be that and this is what's what is
portrayed to Abraham is that there's no
better possible way of conducting
yourself psychologically or socially All
Things Considered while in this story
then following this voice that calls you
out into the world now when Abram does
go into the world all hell breaks loose
right he encounters famine and tyranny
and War and and and that calls on him
him to become increasingly more than he
is he every time he has a new field of
Adventure that reveals itself in front
of him he's called upon to make a
sacrifice he has to change he has to let
go he has to abandon the parts of him
that are no longer appropriate to the
new situation and he does that in
intensely so intensely that he's
eventually rewarded with a new name
which is Abraham instead of Abram be
becomes a new person it's a good way of
thinking about it so and then well
obviously Abraham is called upon to make
the an ultimate sacrifice which is the
sacrifice of his son Isaiah and that's
part of part and parcel of the notion
that everything that you have is to be
offered up to the thing that's highest
that pulls you forward it's something
and that's what God is that's that's
part and parcel of the story it's a
definition of what's to be put in the
highest place that's a contract I got it
I like the mirroring of Abraham's
sacrifice in the Old Testament and the
sacrifice of Christ as the uh Apex event
in the New Testament that there is an
inversion of that principle I enjoy too
the idea that the endowment of Spirit
and the spirit of inventure is the
maximal principle of of a a a great
father I enjoy this idea very much as
well and I was uh wondering Jordan
whilst you were speaking
about the values that that may entail
because a little earlier when you were
talking about money being sort of a one
of the establishing principles for
community and the uh the way that values
can be maintained and Community can be
maintained and you said it's an
expression of ethos and a rtion of ethos
I feel that one of the Contemporary
arguments that rag is that you often
find yourself
um significantly and visibly placed on
one side of is the idea that sort of the
this ethos and these values have become
coopted over time now I know you often
talk about how sort of uh the
conservatism V versus progressivism is a
necessary cultural tension and you know
that many of your detractors and
opponents would easily and definitively
use the phrase uh word patriarchy to
describe the some of these relationships
and what they have culturally owed and
what perhaps they would argue we as men
are oblivious to some of the components
that are packed into that what I've come
to query is the impossibility of the
perhaps the equality that it is stated
they crave within that framing I.E that
something that comes from this forgive
the literalism Genesis would always have
to be expressed in this manner and to
create a paradigm that represented a
true expression of the divine feminine
it would have to be a different Paradigm
altogether this is interesting to me
bearing in mind what you've said earlier
about AI being a sort of a conglomerate
an aggregation that could be mapped onto
our understanding of a collective
unconscious I.E archetypes emerge out of
patterns observed over time but um what
fascinates me also because I feel it
might be practical for surely as a as as
a theology evolves from the Old
Testament into the New Testament is
there a sense without yielding what
territory might be inferred to Islam
here if we were to continue the
trajectory to the insisted uh final
Prophet that um that what we are offered
in Acts for example in the immediate era
after Christ's death and Resurrection is
that the kind of divinity endowed by the
second Covenant God's reversal inversion
and return on Abraham's sacrifice might
become uh not ubiquitous but at least
accessible accessible to many that that
we will perform greater Feats than he
that you my Apostles will perform
greater Feats that as he has sent me as
his Apostle I send you as my Apostles I
read acts again recently in some easy
accessible almost slang version of it in
fact a man who shares your surname
Eugene Peterson's book uh the message
and what I was struck by in this version
of Acts was the vivacity uh the livid
and vitality of the book and how the
sense of urgency of Christianity that it
you know think of the critiques that are
often slung in your direction
conservatism it stayed like you know
this is a very sort of and admittedly
it's 200000 years old but a very sort of
a vibrant Call to Arms an urgent sense
that oh my God we we're living in an
atrophying and dying ideology we must
become alive with Christ we must change
the world and and and even the accounts
that are given in there are accounts of
people jailed and on trial that even
though it is l biblical they're not it's
very distinct from the Old Testament
with its locusts and its deserts and its
tribes and its manner now it sort of
feels overtly and and literally
political so what I'm saying is is that
somehow like between these two sets of
books and I don't know how arbitrary
that taxonomy is even uh Jordan
obviously it must be an area of your
expertise by now having sort of watched
the incredible content you've generated
around it uh what
is there be has there been a significant
reversal of charge and what is that
charge what how do how are we endowed
with that charge now at the point when
you have Richard Dawkins saying I am
culturally
Christian are people starting to
recognize that there is um like that
this is not just a Remnant IDE ideology
this is a living thing that has been
discarded I listened to that Bishop
Baron who you had on your show the other
day talking about ethereal angels and I
thought yes the religion that I am
interested in is not a
precursor and uh a parallel to
psychotherapy it is a precursor and
parallel to qu quantum physics helping
me to understand what do you mean when
you say self who is this self what do
you mean when you say reality when you
say reality what are you talking about
and is it possible that reality is
something that we conjure here as
vessels and conduits of the Divine if we
have the capacity to somehow in the
moment through practice disavow the
strong gravitational literally pull of
the material and the unconscious ethos
with with with which we are continually
inculcated by the Insidious nihilistic
or or or or orbe it glistening culture
that attempts to in make us all devotees
of this new
banality sleep is a foundation for our
mental and physical health in other
words you've got to have a consistent
nighttime routine to function at your
best but if you're struggling with sleep
then you've got to check out Beam Beam
isn't your run-of-the-mill sleep aid
it's a concoction carefully crafted to
help you rest without the grogginess
that often accompanies other sleep
remedies a bunch of us here at the daily
wire count on beam's dream powder to
knock us out and sleep better through
the night so we can show up ready for
work the next day just mix beam dream
into hot water or milk stir or froth and
then enjoy before bedtime then wake up
feeling refreshed without the next day
grogginess caused by other Sleep
Products dream contains a powerful
allnatural blend of RI magnesium
eleanine appenine and melatonin to help
you fall asleep stay asleep and wake up
refreshed and with it now being
available in delicious flavors like
cinnamon cocoa chocolate peanut butter
and mint chip better sleep has never
tasted better and today listeners of
this show can get a special discount on
beam's dream powder get up to 40% off
for a lied time when you go to shop
beam.com Peterson and use go Peterson
checkout that's shop
beam.com Peterson and use code Peterson
for up to 40%
off well when when the when Moses
disappears to go find the to be given
the Ten
Commandments he leaves his political arm
behind right
Aaron so there's two forces that lead
the Lost across the desert there's the
prophetic and the political and Aaron is
the political and in that part of the
story The prophetic disappears and
the political falls under the sway of
something like the immediacy of
Hedonism so the Israelites immediately
turned to worship of the golden calf and
it it's something like money so a calf
is
obviously um
Cal calf is in the class of livestock
and livestocks are livestock is bodies
at hand to consume it's a form of wealth
obviously um and golden calf
is the first level representation of
that abstractly you might say it's
halfway to money a golden calf but it's
still materialistic now when the
Israelites start to worship the golden
calf and and become materialistic
they become concerned with uh immediate
hedonistic self-gratification
okay and so then and it isn't only that
they're worshiping the golden calf
they're dancing around naked drunk It's
a pride parade I mean and I'm dead
serious about that I'm I'm dead serious
about that is the political descends
into a pride parade as soon as the
prophetic disappears well why
well because Everyone Falls under the
sway of their of the Dominion of their
immature instincts you know when someone
says I want what I want right
now what they're failing what they're
failing to understand is that they've
they've they've come to a conclusion
about what constitutes I and the I that
they're allowing to be constituted is
actually the Dominion of their instincts
they're reverting to a form of they're
reverting to the same sort of behavior
that characterizes Abraham before his
adventure takes place it's it's mere
honic immediate
gratification now you might say if you
were Progressive it's like well what's
wrong with that and the answer is well
why don't you put 42 year olds out in
the forest and see how long they
last and the answer is not very long and
the reason for that is because there's
nothing in that realm of instinctual
self-gratification that's going to be
able to propagate itself communally over
any reasonable amount of time I mean
that's why we have communal organization
why we make those sacrifices is because
as you mature you start to understand
that mere whim or mere
desire first of all is a pretty narrow
definition of who you are especially
because it changes moment to moment just
like gender
apparently right it's this
shapeshifting it's
actually it's actually a an a prior
decision about what to worship like if
you're a pagan for example and you're
polytheistic for example all that it
means is that it doesn't mean you
worship nothing it means that you you
identify yourself with your instinctual
desire
you define I as whatever desire rules at
the moment that's just the kind of
possession and it's an immature
possession and it can't work because it
there's nothing in it that's productive
it's all mouth and need and no action
and sacrifice and so there's something
wrong about it fundamentally wrong about
it something fundamental that's Peter
that's the land of Peter Pan right the
boy who won't grow up
who thinks that maturity is nothing but
like power and corruption that's
represented by Captain Hook now to give
the progressives they're due to give the
left it's
due of course that
patriarchal structure that is predicated
on sacrifice can become corrupted
coopted gigantic right lumbering blind
willfully blind it de generates in the
direction of power always so this is a
good rule of thumb and you can think
about this in the confines of your
marriage or even your relationship with
yourself right when the proper
integrating Spirit isn't at hand and
operative then the relationship
degenerates in the direction of power
you start to use compulsion you start to
use Force you know you you exchange
angry words with your wife and you
attempt to force her to adopt the point
of view that you think is appropriate
but the fact that that happens
continually does not indicate that
That's the basis of the relationship the
qu right it's not is power the basis of
the relationship well the progressives
obviously say yes they say there's
nothing other than power that's what the
bloody postmodernists concluded in the
in the
1970s and if it's not power what is it
well it's it's the spirit of voluntary
self-sacrifice that's the antithesis of
power that's clearly the antithesis of
power and then you mentioned just I'll
just add one thing because you mentioned
this call that you saw in Acts which is
Christ's insistence that those he leaves
behind will do Works greater than his
this is also where I see the insipid
element of protestantism in particular
although not only protestantism that
says well all you have to do is say Lord
Lord and you'll be saved right all you
have to do is claim belief in the Christ
who's already redeemed us and then you
know now you're in the kingdom of heaven
and that isn't what the biblical text
indicates it indicates that those who
are left in the aftermath of the
Resurrection will be called upon to do
greater things than Christ himself which
is a hell of a call given the nature of
his sacrifice right this is no joke and
what we're called upon to do is to
participate in that
process right fully or else like and
seriously or else and I can feel
everybody can feel that nipping at the
edges including people like Richard
Dawkins I may say that when you reach
immediately for Pride as your example of
Hedonism you do yourself no favors in my
humble opinion sir because you could
just as easily use a an example of uh
Hedonism and Indulgence that doesn't
have such overt and explicit
connotations when it comes to a
particular expression of human sexuality
that's just one point let me go on for
ages if you don't mind um now I am aware
of course of I've lived hedonistically
I've been a drug addict I've lived
indulgently for long periods of time so
I understand the nature of that power
and in practice how it may as well be a
God and how you conceptualize that could
be uh pantheistic you could see it as
Aphrodite or as Venus you could see
yourself as being devoured by Cupid and
certainly by by
iros and making yourself the subject of
such high humors Prius man Prius Prius
indeed indeed indeed but this is but I
saw some things in what you were saying
that struck me as important that when
you were saying that of course when we
default to making the self our deity uh
The Sovereign being that which is
currently charged whichever instinct is
at the wheel whichever instinct is in
the driving seat that will become the
that will become sovereign at that
moment if you have no recourse against
that if you have no principle if you
have no path if you have no da if you
have no Christ if you have no way of
breathing and living God into being then
you will default to the instincts in
conjunction with cultural influence that
those will be the two poles that will
generate patterns as surely as if they
were magnets on iron filings and for
there to be any charge at all there must
be polarity this refusal of the call the
inability to accept maturation the
inability to throw off infancy and to
accept the Chalice to accept the Grail
to receive the wound to know what you
must do this is there is a tension in
this for me in the maintenance of the
necessary innocence that Christ himself
insists we must find and it seems that
when you said for a moment and i' I'd
love your take on this as well as all
everything that I'm saying that that the
self is a morphus the self is an event
it is not in stasis the self will be
discovered and will evolve in
relationship
then indeed we do lend some Credence to
those who say these two categories of
maleness and femaleness or man and woman
do not suit me now what no doubt these
ideas like all ideas race distinction
nationality Commerce have been lent
further charged by I would say powerful
sets that seek to govern and control
Consciousness itself that see that as
the ultimate terrain that that require
for the perpetuation of their control
the continual flinging of rocks into
that pool to prevent something glorious
coalescing there some new unity and what
I would offer is this that surely the
synthesis that we're requiring out of
this thesis antithesis war that we we're
plainly still in is the ability to
acknowledge that there must be some kind
of fluidity there must be some kind of
Freedom there must be some kind of
acceptance that tradition cannot become
a a rod to steer control or prod others
that that our religious faith that our
spirituality that our morality and our
ethics must be for the marshalling of
our own instincts and designs and desire
for power and you're right and I always
love it Jordan when you return it to how
are you behaving in your marriage how
are you behaving in yourself I was
thinking about how do I behave in my
marriage with my wife how often do I
tend towards power in irritability
leaning arrogantly into whatever sets of
abilities I'll claim for myself in
desperation and and God knows I I spend
significant time there but because both
you and I tend to as you laid out
earlier in our conversation move from
the micro to the macro to March gladly
out to the penumbra to see what might be
found there it leaves us with a kind of
one a duty to demonstrate in our conduct
that that quality of joy and
open-heartedness that quality of good
faith and and I feel that perhaps the
next marker of our progression might be
when we can say well what is it that is
of value in these ideas that are
emerging out of post structuralism the
the sort of this willingness to cast out
even nature even the body I'm born in
isn't me nature itself isn't real to
hell with the sun to hell with Jesus to
hell even with my own chromosomes
neither the cro crucifix or the why are
of value in the final analysis um and
because I've lived there a while because
I've lived continually in Indulgence
because I have been so many times
humbled and my humbling continues yet
what it leaves me with is that there is
something obviously obviously there is
something in what you have brought into
our culture that people were looking for
and needed and I I value it and I
appreciate it that's why I apologize
when I'm late you know tidy your room
man arrive on time stand up straight you
know like but there is also something
that I am before I was an AA borus
consuming my own self and now I am more
porous looking for ways to be open to
solution and you know and I feel there
is something we have to deliverer I
think that that there is a something
that we have to deliver and it's I think
the time the fishes and fractures are
emerging now the the possibility exists
now for even say the your most vehement
and vocal detractors to recognize in you
what is what you have bought to the
conversation that is true and for us to
recognize what they have been saying
that is accurate that is correct that is
worthy of being heard and I would say
that sort of if you you just casually
maybe out of habit use Pride as the
example that you know instead of the
many heterosexual and normative ways
that people are equally indulgent and
sort of lost in a drift and I know those
World cuz I've lived there then then
then I think that we're not affording
ourselves a pathway through this that
that would be
beneficial as your business grows the
workload can become overwhelming task
that used to take a day now take a week
if you're feeling this strain netsuite
is here to provide relief 37,000
businesses have upgraded to netsuite by
Oracle netsuite is the number one Cloud
Financial system streamlining accounting
financial management inventory HR and
much more for 25 years netsuite has been
helping businesses do more with less
close their books in days not weeks and
drive down costs recognizing that every
business is unique netsuite offers a
tailored solution that aligns with your
specific key performance indicators all
in one efficient system with a single
source of Truth next will help you
manage risks get reliable forecasts and
improve margins with netsuite you have
everything you need to grow all in one
place right now download Net's popular
kpi checklist designed to give you
consistently excellent performance for
absolutely free at netsuite.com jbp
that's netsuite.com jbp to get your own
key performance indicator checklist
again that's netsuite.com
jbp okay so I'm going
to you you asked really I think two
fundamental questions there one had to
do with the nature of authority and
force and the other had to do with
fluidity oh yeah there was a third one
which is what did the postmodernists
bring to the table let's start with that
well here's one thing they got right we
see the world through a
story that's true that's revolutionary
that
truth right and I think that I think
this Science Now points extremely
strongly in that
direction the AI systems are trained in
accordance with that notion all the
great psychologist perception that I've
studied and talked to have concluded the
same thing we see the world through a
story the description of the structure
that we see the world through is a story
and we have to wait our perceptions that
goes back to that Collective unconscious
idea that we started with is that we see
the literal things we see our
perceptions themselves are a function of
that waiting process they're they're a
consequence of a narrative process and
so the postmodernists got that right and
that's why we have a culture war in part
because we're trying to work something
out that's very deep we see the world
through a story is the story one of
power and tyranny well the answer to
that is to a large degree
unfortunately but not fundamentally
and that that's a c that's where the
postmodern lefties go so terribly wrong
because
they insistance is that the world is a
battleground of power and that's of
there isn't a more dangerous conclusion
than you can POS that you can possibly
draw than that now you still have to
give the devil is due so I'm going to
consider briefly the story of
Moses okay you talked about the rod of
authority right to be it's to be used
spar in ly well Moses is the archetypal
leader and the main figure in the Old
Testament arguably speaking and he has
the flaws of the leader even the
prophetic leader and the flaw is the
proclivity to default to power and he
does that quite regularly um in some of
moses' actions are the kinds of uh
consequences and and motivations that
someone like Dawkins would point to and
say a God who would produce a motivation
that evil is not a God that I'm willing
to abide by now he says at the same time
that he is a cultural Christian so the
situation is complex and people are
starting to waking up wake up to that
fact but
Moses his pattern of fa failure his
Achilles heel is to use power when he's
called upon to use
invitation and this is actually fatal in
the final analysis so in numbers which
is where the story of Exodus basically
concludes Moses has shepherded his
people through the desert which is where
you end up with when your tyranny
crumbles right you end up in the desert
which is why people don't like to let go
of their
presuppositions anyways he's shephered
through the desert basically for three
generations and they're on the border of
the promised land and the Israelites run
yet again out of water and they prevail
upon Moses to intercede with God to
provide water and God tells Moses
there's some rocks nearby you go have
you go tell those rocks to deliver the
water you go speak to those rocks
properly and they'll deliver the water
that will save your people and Moses
goes to the rocks and he hits the
Rocks twice not once but twice with his
staff now this staff this is this is the
rod of aus this is the flag you plant
when you establish new territory this is
the Lana or Vine that connects Heaven
and Earth it's the staff that defeats
the staff of the Court magicians it's
the staff that turns into the serpent
that eats all the other serpents this is
a major league staff right it's it's the
authority of Moses and he uses Authority
when he's called upon to use the logos
that's his sin and the consequence of
that is dire
God AB uh Aaron so the political arm
dies and Moses is forbidden from
entering the promised
land and so what's the rule there the
rule is to the patriarch let's say the
rule is do not use Force when you could
use
invitation don't fall prey to that
Temptation now the left looks at the
patriarchy and says nothing but for it's
like I wait a minute
guys nothing but that's a bit too
extreme ACC claim you mean nothing but
it's like okay why the hell are your
lights
on you know look around you you think
all of that's a consequence of force do
you you think that's all of that
productivity all of that life more
abundant all of that material wealth you
think that's a consequence of nothing
but Force you think your married Mar is
nothing but Force you think your family
is nothing but Force you think your your
community your friends all business
relationships that's nothing but power
is it and and why am I supposed to
believe that you're not saying that just
to justify your own use of power because
that's how the radicals that's how they
operate as far as I can tell it's like
well the world's just a battleground of
power and the only thing important is
who has the rod and that's a big problem
because no that's not a solution
and there's a there's a lot of
selfservice in the claim that power
rules it's very very very dangerous now
if it isn't power what is it well it's
the antithesis of power you know when
Christ is the third Temptation that's
offered to Christ when he's in the
desert and he encounters
Satan is the what is the temptation of
power and so we can which he refuses and
so we can derive from that the IDE a
that the pattern of Christ's life is the
antithesis of power and what you see in
that life is the constant refusal to use
Force no matter what right and the the
Roman soldiers make fun of him they say
well if you're the Son of God you know
why don't you come off the cross and lay
the landscape to waste which is at least
in principle within the purview of
possibility and the answer is well
you're not go you're not allowed in the
final analysis you're not allowed to use
Force no matter
what right invitation logos not
force and that that seems to be Tangled
into this idea of voluntary
self-sacrifice as the antithesis of
power perhaps then Jordan what we might
explore is something that uh I think
think I heard EMT Fox describe was that
were we to be invited to save but one
Soul or entire material Empires we all
always choose the soul and I suppose
also in the bagavita choose Krishna
above all the artillery and Armory in
the world and the greatest weapons
available choose only Krishna choose
always the Divine that if Christ's power
is not materially practiced and yet
indeed we find once more at the center
of the discourse that word that concept
power the word and concept upon which
the post modernists arrived and you say
reductively alighted as
conclusive I wonder might we
consider that where this battlefield
ultimate Ely resides is internally for
surely Christ's actions indicate that
his power is in self-sacrifice and in in
action and in the refusal to implement
Force clearly when you describe the uh
these
benefits if if not Glory the practical
application and operation of culture and
the uh the the Legacy o of the
patriarchy of Western Civilization the
institutions flawed but yet functioning
it's clearly reductive to say that that
is not but Force I suppose yet they may
say the benefits are inadvertent
consequences only afforded in the same
way just to use an example off the top
of my head that um the the eventual end
of
slavery ultimately delivers a work force
that gives you the idea of progress but
still allows establishment interests to
operate quite comfortably once the well
I I I don't think there's any reason to
dispute the reality of the claim that
the fundamental
landscape well I think the fundamental
landscape is good and evil but right on
top of that is tyranny and slavery right
so if we go back to the story of the
Israelites if we go back to the Exodus
story you have there the claim that the
the uh the reality the leader always
contends with
always is the reality of tyranny and
slavery at every level and that's
something like a power Dynamic but that
doesn't mean that the solution to the
problem is that the slaves become the
tyrant in in fact that's a solution
that's offered to Moses as a possibility
that in fact the Israelites clamor for
it just like they later clamor for a
king the slaves want a king is the slave
tyranny de demension or the slave Ty Ty
Tyrant dichotomy played out in the
capitalist landscape well [__]
obviously like obviously I don't see
that there needs to be a dispute about
that
it's as an entry player in the
capitalist world you play out the slave
Tyrant dichotomy
and you might say well that means the
slaves should overthrow the tyrants
right but that doesn't that doesn't
address the fundamental problem the
problem is think about it this way how
the hell do you stop being a slave well
a slave to what well we could start you
know you already described this to some
degree how about you stop being a slave
to your own godamn
whims right like exactly how is this
battle to Free Yourself From Slavery to
be undertaken well we're going to
restructure the entire economic system
it's like oh you are you're going to do
that are you you're going to do that you
can't even make your bed you're the
prisoner of your own whim you're a slave
to your own desires there's nothing to
you if you did manage the revolution the
monsters you release would take you out
so fast that you wouldn't have time to
think and it wouldn't be pleasant and
we've seen that time and time again like
the solution to the slave Tyrant
dichotomy isn't political revolution see
you see that reflected again in the in
the passion Story the the the uh the mob
that's upset with Christ is upset at
least in part because he refuses to play
the role of political
revolutionary and so because that's not
the way out of the slave Tyrant
dichotomy the the way out is to stop
being a bloody slave now how well I
think that's partly the pathway of
maturation isn't it is that it's
voluntary service to a higher good it's
something like that this is what this is
what God tells Moses to tell the tyrants
and the egyp and the Israelites and and
we always get this wrong we always
forget the second half of this so this
is a civil rights
shth Moses tells the Tyrant the phoh let
my people
go you know that's Martin Luther King
but that's not what he said says he says
it 10 times just in case you didn't
catch it the first time he says let my
people
go so they may worship me in my in the
desert and that means to establish a
particular kind of relationship outside
the tyranny in the wilderness that well
it speaks of the responsibility of each
person to take on the existential burden
of existence the burden of existence
voluntarily right to be become a locust
of authority and
responsibility themselves because
otherwise they abdicate that
responsibility to the Tyrant and that's
not fundamentally a political problem it
has political ramifications but you know
like your decision to become a father
that's not a political
decision and your your ability to be a
good father is also that's not a
political Choice it's something far
deeper than that you to the degree that
you're a good father which is an abst
ract role hence the name father you're
going to be a conduit for the spirit
of for the for the benevolent Spirit of
your ancestors that's a perfectly
reasonable way of thinking about it
you're going to let the spirit of the
father pour through you and occupy you
right and that's a form of worship and
subordination it's not power I love it I
love that often in my wife she we have a
young son as you know and I see flashes
of the archetype I see how she is
governed by what I suppose Richard
Dawkins would call U um natural
processes but I see beyond that I see
the light that shines I see behind the
behavior behind the biology I feel the
resonance that she is rolent with the
spirit of the ancestors that she is not
just their mother but she is the mother
how could any woman sacrifice so much
how could any woman continue to provide
so unquestioningly and so uh diligently
I'm struck by several things it's plain
that there is a negotiation and it seems
to me that what you're saying is that
the error of this new Progressive
postmodern sort of marxist use your sort
of uh uh the language that you would use
even if I would sort of query that
language there is a negotiation and that
negotiation of course must involve power
I'm struck that what Moses what Moses
carries out politically against a a sort
of a another king an alternative King in
the Pharaoh uh and as the head of a
tribe Christ carries out as an emissary
alone and in the desert there are
parallels the desert is a parallel the
adversarial nature of the of combat
there is a parallel there but these
distinctions I suppose there must be
information given that we are operating
on the assumption that this is operating
this is your term as a library and sort
of as a progressive discourse that's
deliberately trying to induce a state
and perhaps it's the states that we're
describing quite simply in the you know
the father the mother a role that may be
useful to us um and what I feel is um
you know what I feel a hero yes yes yes
to be worthy of the term and what I feel
like is important now certainly what
feels important to me is what is it that
I am to revive how is it that I will
continue to Incline towards this
ancestral greatness what is the duty and
how might the power of logos impact
reality differently than force and it's
extraord so okay so let me ask you let
me ask you that specifically like you're
quite the wizard of words now and and so
you have that as a gift now
you you've detailed out
your subjugation to the to the land of
whim let's say and now you're you have
this podcast you have a public
presence you've been vouch safe that
this is your podcast I'm in your podcast
right now this is your podcast so now
now we're getting some
when it becomes an absolute amorphus
podcast where the Father and Son don't
even know because the spirit is so
abundant and all immersive that we don't
even know who's Moses who's the Pharaoh
who's Jesus who's the serpent now we're
getting somewhere
baby well so it seems to me well it
seems to me the the uh it's all of our
podcast
Russell so it seems to me that the
simplest place place for people to start
with regard
to finding their pathway forward is to
be very careful with their
words and I'm I want to know something
personal from you it's like I believe
that what you're doing on your podcast
is attempting
to Find Your Way Forward carefully
you're investigating and exploring and
that's the answer to the question about
amorphic identity it's
like the people who push forward the
notion that identity is is
fluid that's that's the case if you're
progressing forward in Exploration and
trying to expand your domain of
responsibility let's say it's not true
if what you're doing to be fluid in your
identity is the abandonment of all
responsibility
whatsoever right so and those can look
very they can look casually very similar
now I I want to know from you it's like
what is it that you're doing with your
words when you're doing what you should
be doing and what's the consequence
what's been the consequence of that for
you and for your reputation and and
for what would you say for your for your
Dynasty and for everyone else it's the
same abrahamic question if you use your
words properly I mean first of all do
you if you do why when you do what
happens how do you know when you deviate
from that and what do you think your
responsibility is in that regard thank
you the prayer of jabz I think in
Chronicles 2 uh oh that you would bless
me indeed and enlarge my territory that
your hand would be with me that you
would keep me from Evil I feel that with
words I that's a good one yeah um feel
like with words I'm trying to keep uh
I'm trying to generate Community I'm
trying to use language to create common
Unity to instantiate and realize an
inherent and already existing connection
and that we live individually and
collectively in a super state of
potentiality that is our he has no hands
but ours but we are here to formulate
his kingdom that as we have already read
reference that it is we are his Apostles
that this is our duty now for the
experientially how that is is as you
have kindly suggested it is indeed a
gift and therefore requires no effort
requires only accept acceptance and a
receptive State when I'm in this
receptive State the communication is
effortless I'm almost not a participant
it seems to me that what the the
polarity is is precisely as you have
described that I am a both carried I am
a vessel for and a vehicle upon my
instincts the flow of my instincts are
that we had the senses are that we had
the instruments to observe the patterns
that might be about us the endocrinal
streams that may yet flow and where they
carry me and with what tellos and with
what purpose in mind upon these with my
rod I try to impose Jordan yes an ANC an
ancestral inheritance of some value and
the the Battleground for me the
Battleground for me is the inculcation
of this ego it was very very well done
by the culture the raw material of the
appetites was they did good work with
this clay so easy if you feel a
continual lack as one might if you have
not yet been shown a path to God so easy
to worship their their herd of golden
calves that they lay before you and all
the all of the bounties that are on
offer it seems to me that it isn't and
this is from what I have learned from
other alcoholics and addicts that walk
the path ahead of me that it isn't the
external stimulant that must be
addressed and overcome no it is the
receptive pole it is the is the
coordinate it is the inner coordinate
that must be overcome and I see what you
mean now in the difference between the
use of the staff and logos and I imagine
you're using that word because there is
no perfect English
interpretation uh available for it and
this kind of active awareness this kind
of active presence making ourselves as I
try in the rosary to imagine the V
vibrant nothingness to feel the vibrant
nothingness and here within the vibrant
nothingness is the sacred mother and it
is her that I petition that she may
convey to her son the god that she grew
in her belly that I pray too to be
forgiven but not not me as an individual
but me just as one more sheep just as
one more member of the flock if I can
overcome the uh apperences of my
identity that that I have been adorned
with and self adorned that I have
ornamented endlessly that with the brush
lent to me by the culture with the
lacquer that that I've squeezed out of
every gland applied to fortify this uh
uh this uh shith of self if that if I if
I can somehow overcome that and where
might I overcome it but but in the
present where but the present where but
that the as you say as you say the
message of Christ the absolute refusal
to use Force the absolute refusal to use
force that the higher will might be that
the higher will might be engaged that
the higher purpose might find its
fulfillment the challenge Jordan that I
would offer
you inquiry rather sir uh is that um you
know the acceptance that what is
happening is God's will that the
suffering is God's will that to let it
go to work on you that the opposite as I
was taught recently the opposite of
faith is not doubt the opposite of faith
is
certainty and that to live in this to
live in this horror of uncertainty and
to live there with Grace a Grace that I
cannot
self-generate even if the source of all
things must include me somehow is that
is the ongoing Challenge and with
language I suppose I hope to illustrate
that there are Connections in these
patterns of differences in these
signifiers that may yet be arbitrary I
do see the markings of some fractal
archetype perhaps the success of the
language that we're currently using is
meritocratic maybe in its Jagged
consonants and flowing vows in its laal
fricatives in its linguistic Grace there
is something akin to truth emerging if
we will just allow it well so let me let
me ask you something that's more
personal than this is my observation and
you tell me if it's accurate so you've
talked about
being spectacularly successful in the
land of hedonistic whim let's say and
you've discussed
while you were kind of an icon for that
right and and a model for that even and
so you know you're you're you're you're
emblematic of that of the success of
that approach but that didn't work for
all sorts of reasons and so it seemed to
me that you wandered out of that
landscape into a kind of amorphous
mysticism but that that's became become
more targeted and it's become more
targeted in the Christian Direction
recently particularly perhaps in the
last year is all of that accurate yes is
there any okay that is accurate okay so
what do you make of the fact and you
talked about the rosary specifically
just now what do you make what do you
make of the fact that
that Journey out in the desert of
mysticism let's say is is well the
things the I think the same thing is
happening to you in some ways that's
happening to people like iion hery Ali
and to Neil Ferguson and to Douglas
Murray and to Tim Holland Tom Holland
and and also to Richard Dawkins is that
there's a recognition emerging that
there's something in the midst of the
Mystic let say down in the depths of the
metaphysical that speaks of something
that's much more Christian than any of
us would have possibly imagined let's
say 15 years ago or even a year ago for
that matter and I'm wondering how that's
making itself manifest specifically in
your life like how is this mysticism
that's obviously part of your nature
that was probably what was pulling you
at least in part in the hedonistic
direction to begin with that was
somewhat desire for communion with the
spirit of dionisius and bakus you know
like there's a there's a there's a call
to self-transcendence in a kind of
radical Hedonism that's for sure and so
it's just
not the optimal ground let's say it
might be better than rank cowardice
however you know it was William Blake
who said wisdom through excess and
there's something to be said about that
and that's also echoed in the tale of
the prodigal Sun by the way it's
something to wander in the vast
wastelands of the hedonistic World
successfully and then come home there's
something to be celebrated in that even
though you're going to pay for your
bloody sins that's for sure even though
they may have been necessary and even
desirable in some bizarre sense so in
your life at the
moment it it looks to me like you've
taken a Christian tilt like what the
hell do you make of that and how do you
know that that's just not another form
of self-aggrandizing
falsehood well you know wow just when
you think you've thrown the devil out
there he is again
but somewhere to go well you know I see
Joseph Campbell as a kind of uh sort of
Deputy to yung's principal and I like
how uh Campbell says uh in the end you
might likely explore the native ideology
and theology now I know that's sort of
somewhat fast and loose given that I'm
in northern Europe and the Nazarene was
hardly springing forth from Essex Grays
on the temp side right an important
point to make an important point to make
western it's like yeah not
exactly yes yes um how it has felt is
almost as if something that felt so
parochial and prosaic because of the um
you know because of the Delivery Systems
of it's ordinary it's abundant it's
these grandmas bus stop it's the drab
inations of a Vicor in a parish it's the
apologetic Church of England and I'm not
attacking the Church of England but
where you feel that they might almost be
afraid to mention God in there for fear
of stepping on somebody's toes he's he's
in the broom closet he's underneath the
mck yes
definitely so because it felt so it felt
so sort of you know local like this
figure of Christ what it's like what
it's felt like is oh it's you he's
always been there he's always been there
there is something in this that is not
that as you obviously are exploring as
well as rather beautifully uh
Illuminating for us there's something in
these
texts that is about inducing States and
as
whenever a ultimately a rational idea
issued through
language Poetics you know through
Poetics when you induce a state beyond
what is literally encoded when you
invite somehow that you reach beyond
what is presented
linguistically it seemed to me somehow
that in returning to this in returning
to the Bible in returning to Christ
indeed it does feel like a return
doesn't it rather than a novel Discovery
issued at the shore by a missionary who
doesn't know whether he's going to get a
pat on the back or a cauldron to swim in
at high temperatures it's it's felt to
me like this has always been here this
has always been here I'm of course
enjoying CS Lewis's approach because you
I am a product of uh cultural atheism
materialism Hedonism and yes or
a child as much of Jim Morrison as
William Blake of like that this is about
the dionysian the bonan this is about
empowerment Sex Magic The Glory of it
all the Abundant Glory throwing off the
Lial and the
limiting and of course then one arrives
one day at the terrible conclusion that
there's nothing there and and perhaps
only then indeed that's why Jim Morrison
died right at 27 which seems to be the
fate of many many um enthusiastic back
and
alien Geniuses for surely for for surely
there must be a death for surely there
must be a death hopefully you don't have
to kill the host hopefully the death is
merely the idea and what is offered and
one thing I feel as you know from our
previous conversations that I have at
least a kind of experiential authority
to speak about while not representative
Authority is the impact of the 12 steps
on the psyche of an addict and its
analysis in the uh ultimately that what
addiction represents is a spiritual
problem is a spiritual quandry and even
embedded in the idioms like get off my
face Lose Myself get smashed is the idea
that what the actual impulse is and
indeed think how significant the word
craving is within addiction is a move
towards a pulling some Force some Source
some calling some claran call some
Harbinger awaiting some personal Rapture
the problem is of course living as we do
in these a context that ultimately
offers you as the end goal through
materialist and rational analysis that
you might become just this type of a
person in this type of a society some
important is lost and those things are
explicit in the texts that undergird
12st step practice and philosophy it is
plain that they are talking primarily
about and I've said to you before but
I'll say again that Yung was a key
influence on the founders of that
movement along Al curiously along with
first century Christianity that what
that they are not saying you know give
up drink and give up drugs they are
saying give up self give up self give up
self there are phrases like abandon
yourself to God completely like after
they get past the it's not going very
well is it all this drinking and drug
use and even indicated in the earliest
literature for these groups is the idea
that there will be behavioral
Expressions that there will be sexual
behaviors there will promiscuity Etc and
God alone and and and if you maybe even
just take that as one thread and
consider what the 70 years since this
piece of folk philosophy was orur in the
world of pornography something that was
once of course available but somewhat
abstract and now is normalized immersive
immediately available it's it seems that
the environment is encroaching and this
reminds me of something sort of
important I want to say of course anyone
that explores it is the reason the
prodical sun is important is because
like if someone go if someone's telling
you you don't want to be doing any of
that and it's seems that it's born in
puruan and an inability an inability to
attract mates well what's the value of
that testimony but someone that's come
back from there and says well give it a
try but it didn't work very well for me
it is uh I think is a more powerful uh
testimony to deliver at least it seems
to me that that that certainly that is
the testimony that that has affected me
more but what is difficult to avoid I
feel Jordan is the sense that not only
is there this you know and you is
something you touched upon earlier you
said no it's not only Force you know and
and I sort of offered you that perhaps
the benevolence that this Force has
issued but could be and this is of
course reductive an inadvertent side
effect of the of T tyranny and Please be
aware that I am apprised of the fact
that the forms of tyranny that are
emerging now apparently in opposition to
these old school not to be repeated
let's face it militaristic demagogic
populist strongman forms of tyranny that
we're being continually warned of are
far more terrifying the Kafkaesque
bureaucratic banalized invisible
Dreadful we're here to help I'm afraid
your inquiry can't be heard this is
diabolical huxley's hell terrifies me
even more than Orwells although plainly
we're in some amalgam with uh beautiful
gilding from Kafka in the sort of
unknowable qual where is the judge what
is the trial who's doing all this stuff
and it seems to me that there must be e
even if we are to say it's about power
even if we are asking who is it an
internal struggle is it my power over my
instincts and the expression of those
instincts in in in conjunction with
culture that I might call self over time
there seems to be some other agent there
doesn't indeed seem to be a serpent
there do indeed appear to be fallen
angels there do indeed appear to be
ulterior forces at work for I am struck
that when I was an emblem of this
culture in my Hedonism I was gloried and
made much of and when I say there is
something else we must move towards God
this is when the culture comes alive
this is when the spotlight shines this
is when the knock at the door comes this
is when forces are marshaled it seems to
me that something someone must have been
telling lies about Joseph
K all right sir look I'm gonna I'm going
to I'm G to close on that you know um
we'll obviously continue this
conversation how could when how could it
ever
end yeah yeah H how's your son he's
doing so marvelously well he's doing I
mean it's just beautiful he like what
it's done to the family Dynamic this
child again I to see my wife mother him
so beautifully to reaffirm my connection
with my two
daughters to experience the you know
bloody hell man like I tell you to see
your son on a slab with what appeared to
be they might as well have been sort of
Mayan priests these giant
anesthetists before they carve open his
thorax with the happy intention of
course of saving his life it feels
biblical indeed to be confronted with
that to oh it gave me moments to to a
mother weeping for her child the
hopelessness the Despair and of course
this was within the tundra this was
within the tundra of what amount to lies
and my God Jordan my God you know the I
mean this might give you an indication
why someone might go scurrying somewhat
keenly towards
Jesus hey I got a book for you yeah read
the sacred and the
profane by elad yes sir he was a big
influence on Campell too and ilad is a
Real Genius he's a real genius very
short book punching as hell deadly book
he's got about six or seven that are
very much worth reading but that's
probably top of the list the sacred and
the profane sir next time we talk we can
talk about it all right that'll be good
right man hey I love you nice talking to
you Russell my love to Tammy yes sir my
love to Tammy and to your children and
thank
you all right sir to everybody watching
and listening thank you very much for
your time and attention to the Daily
wire Plus people for making this
possible that's much appreciated to the
film crew here today in Tulsa Oklahoma
that's where we are thanks for your help
Russell we'll talk soon thanks for
thanks for chatting today
[Music]